Update release-overview (#592)
mattermost/mattermost-handbook: operations/research-and-development/product/release-process/cloud-release.md

# Cloud Release Process

## Release Timeline

Notes:
- All cut-off dates are based on 10am ([San Francisco Time](http://everytimezone.com/)) on the day stated.
- T-minus counts are measured in "working days" (weekdays other than major holidays concurrent in US and Canada) prior to release day.

### A. (T-minus 7 working days) Fast-forward master to cloud branch

> 

Author: Confirm tickets are resolved.

This document outlines the Cloud release process for the Mattermost core team, which draws from what we find works best for us from Agile, Scrum, and Software Development Lifecycle approaches.

## Release Timeline

Notes:
- All cut-off dates are based on 10am ([San Francisco Time](http://everytimezone.com/)) on the day stated.
- T-minus counts are measured in "working days" (weekdays other than major holidays concurrent in US and Canada) prior to release day.

### A. (T-minus 7 working days) Fast-forward master to cloud branch

1. Release Manager:
    - Ask Cloud SRE team to update the community-release server to the same version as the cloud test installations.
    - Confirm all Jira tickets are resolved for QA testing.
    - Ask QA to do high priority testing.
    - Ask Tech Writer to work on docs.
    - Keep track of any regressions on master for fixing.
    - Add cloud release dates to the Release Google Calendar.
    - Start working on the changelog (both internal and external).
    - Check if any translation PRs, pre-packaged plugins, and notice.txt PRs needed.
2. Dev:
    - Fast-forward “cloud” branch to latest master.
 
### B. (T-minus 0 working days) Release day

> 

Author: Merge docs and changelog
Close the release in Jira

# Cloud Release Process

> This document outlines the Cloud release process for the Mattermost core team, which draws from what we find works best for us from Agile, Scrum, and Software Development Lifecycle approaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document outlines the Mattermost Cloud release process for the Mattermost core team, which draws from what we find works best for us from Agile, Scrum, and Software Development Lifecycle approaches.
```

> This document outlines the Cloud release process for the Mattermost core team, which draws from what we find works best for us from Agile, Scrum, and Software Development Lifecycle approaches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document outlines the Cloud release process for the Mattermost core team. Our release process draws from many best practice Agile, Scrum, and Software Development Lifecycle methodologies.
```

## Release Timeline

Notes:

> - All cut-off dates are based on 10am ([San Francisco Time](http://everytimezone.com/)) on the day stated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- All cut-off dates are based on 10am in San Francisco [(Pacific Time](http://everytimezone.com/)) on the day stated.
```

Reviewer 2: I updated this section because when someone clicks on the link provided, the site lists times based on time zone rather than by city.

- T-minus counts are measured in "working days" (weekdays other than major holidays concurrent in US and Canada) prior to release day.

> ### A. (T-minus 8 working days) Fast-forward master to cloud branch

Reviewer 3: I know we've been calling it fast-forward but technically it's not and is just a merge 

```suggestion
### A. (T-minus 8 working days) Merge master to the Cloud branch
```

Reviewer 3: Wouldn't the new schedule of cut/merge on Monday and release on Wednesday make this t-minus 9 days?

Author: My bad - updated.

1. Release Manager:

>     - Ask Cloud SRE team to update the community-release server to the same version as the cloud test installations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Ask Cloud SRE team to update the community-release server to the same version as the Cloud test installations.
```

>     - Ask Cloud SRE team to update the community-release server to the same version as the cloud test installations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Ask Cloud SRE team to update the community-release server to the same version as the Mattermost Cloud test installations.
```

    - Confirm all Jira tickets are resolved for QA testing.

>     - Ask QA to do high priority testing.

Reviewer 3: With the new schedule wouldn't this be on t-minus 8 days? e.g. start testing on the Tuesday and then not release until next Wednesday

Author: I clarified the text a bit to "Notify QA that the test servers are ready for QA testing. Normally QA testing starts on the next day (at T-8)."

    - Ask Tech Writer to work on docs.
    - Keep track of any regressions on master for fixing.

>     - Add cloud release dates to the Release Google Calendar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Add Cloud release dates to the Release Google Calendar.
```

    - Start working on the changelog (both internal and external).

>     - Check if any translation PRs, pre-packaged plugins, and notice.txt PRs needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Check whether any translation PRs, pre-packaged plugins, and `NOTICE.txt` PRs are needed.
```

2. Dev:

>     - Fast-forward “cloud” branch to latest master.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Merge latest `master` into the Cloud branch
```

 
### B. (T-minus 0 working days) Release day

1. Release Manager:
    - Post in Announcements channel with a link to the changelog.
    - Update community servers to the latest version.
    - Schedule a retrospective.

>     - Confirm PMs are aware of upcoming cloud release dates and feature complete dates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Confirm PMs are aware of upcoming Cloud release dates and feature complete dates.
```
